# late_Qing_dynasty_provincial_control
	China, like much of the rest of the world, changed drastically from the early 19th to the early 20th century. This era saw the shrinking of Chinese influence in the East and Central Asian region, losing Hong Kong to the British via the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. This was spurred on by Chinese attempts to destroy and subsequently retain control over the imports of opium and exports of silver. This opened a larger portion of China to trade with the West, broadening goods and cultural ideals and weakening dynastic control over the areas of rural China not previously exposed to different ideologies. Japan was also increasing in regional influence towards the end of the 19th century, resulting in the eventual takeover of what is now Okinawa and eventually the secession of the Korean peninsula to the Japanese Empire with the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895 (Ch. 2, Chinese Economic Performance in the Long Run, Angus Maddison 1998). 
    This map focuses on the Taiping Rebellion and Taiping Heavenly Kingdom that lasted from 1850 until a864, with many of the key characters being brought up during a a period of tumultuous dynastic influence. It is posited that this is one of the primary influences on the subsequent fall of the "Five-thousand Year Kingdom" that ruled over China for all of its settled history. This map uses a dot matrix layout with forwards and backwards buttons to guide a viewer through a timeline of the rebellion. There are accompanying pictures and information blurbs that appear when manipulating the buttons. QGIS was used for processing and developing of the geojson. Jquery was the javascript library used, and the webpage was built with HTML and CSS.

    https://willchilders1.github.io/mapping-portfolio/

