Proposal for Map 673 Final Project “Provincial Decline and the Death Throes of Dynastic China”
	China, like much of the rest of the world, changed drastically from the early 19th to the early 20th century. This era saw the shrinking of Chinese influence in the East and Central Asian region, losing Hong Kong to the British via the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. This was spurred on by Chinese attempts to destroy and subsequently retain control over the imports of opium and exports of silver. This opened a larger portion of China to trade with the West, broadening goods and cultural ideals and weakening dynastic control over the areas of rural China not previously exposed to different ideologies. Japan was also increasing in regional influence towards the end of the 19th century, resulting in the eventual takeover of what is now Okinawa and eventually the secession of the Korean peninsula to the Japanese Empire with the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895 (Ch. 2, Chinese Economic Performance in the Long Run, Angus Maddison 1998). 

	Chinese geopolitics are easily showcased using a dot matrix map to show the change in Chinese provincial influence over the course of the 19th and early 20th centuries. By comparing two different dot matrices, one with early 19th century Dynastic province control versus another with the same Dynastic control nearly a century later, the diminishing influence of China in East and Central Asia will be showcased. An individual like Francis, our hypothetical recipient of this map, will be interested in visualizing the differences a century can make when it comes to geopolitics. Having maps to illustrate the size and number of provinces lost by the time of the Xinhai Revolution in 1911, it will be much easier to ascertain the events that led to the fall of a five thousand year old Dynastic tradition in favor of Republicanism. If time allows and it is possible to collect additional geographic data regarding this period (i.e. point data and/or enough information to add where Taiping rebellion emerged from) it may be added as an additional layer of the map. Francis would utilize the dropdown menu to highlight the temporo-spatial differences shown with the data. Additionally, there will be text and photographic elements below the map with information on the later years of the Qing Dynasty and supplemental information regarding the fall of the Dynastic system in 1911.
	
  Ideally, the map will be a dot matrix map being overlayed on a base map from the Leaflet provider. The different matrices will be accessed via a dropdown menu in the top righthand corner. This menu will include the provinces under Chinese control in 1820 and the controlled provinces by 1911, highlighting the contrast land area controlled. If possible, the menu will also highlight the progression of the Taiping rebellion northward from the Guanxi Province, the encroachment and military aggression by both the Franco and British Empires in South Asia, and the Russian Empire claiming territory from Manchuria. QGIS will be used for the processing of dot data, and the files will be stored in geojson or topojson format where applicable and in csv format-for consideration of size-otherwise. All of my resources are currently housed in the Final Project folder uploaded to github. It will contain the HTML, CSS, and javascript files by which the webpage is created as well as non-geographic data used as research resources
